Previously on "Chance"...
Mrs. Blackstone.
I'm Eldon Chance.
It says here that you separated
from your husband
after he struck you
in the face.
Shortly thereafter,
you became aware of
a second personality --
Jackie Black.
I hate the name Jackie.
The only person
who calls me that is him.
Chance:
The patient states that Jackie
is daring and extroverted.
How was the lecture?
Tell us about it.
Graduate student
from the math department
was lecturing
on the axiom of choice.
Why?
Would you care?
We're a predatory species.
I mean, that's the world
I deal with every day.
And next time we coincide
like this...
...that's on you.
Back there.
[ Grunting ]
What's that about?
What you do with it
is up to you.
What are you saying?
That what you just did
was some kind of audition?
No.
Why? The rules?
You think
that's how he feels?
There are no victims.
Only volunteers.
**
Oh, God.
I want to make love to you
with my mouth.
Stop it.
Stop it. Stop it.
No. No. Stop. Stop.
[ Both breathing heavily ]
[ Breathing shallowly ]
[ Whimpers,
exhales sharply ]
You okay?
Was it Jackie?
I...
I don't know. She di--
She didn't say her name,
but...
...yes, I believe it was.
[ Exhales sharply ]
I need to go.
Did you --
Did you drive?
Come on.
We'll call you a cab.
It'll be okay.
[ Siren wailing in distance ]
You were still up?
Yeah, well,
after what happened earlier,
sleep didn't seem
like an option.
So what happened
after the two of you
left the restaurant?
Nothing.
He likes to keep people
off balance, in suspense.
I didn't see him
after we left.
At least
that's how I remember it.
And has -- has Jackie
ever done this before?
Has she ever appeared
somewhere outside
the context of Raymond?
'Cause you said that
you had these periods
that you can remember,
these blank spaces,
and then Raymond
was there.
But he's not here now.
I don't know.
Maybe it's something
about you.
[ Sighs ]
Hmm.
Chance: Yeah, well,
I admit I was intrigued.
It was the words as words
that interested me.
It's the words as words
I like to escape from
now and then.
I didn't know
he was violent,
not until that day
in Marin.
**
Jaclyn: We had sandwiches,
a bottle of wine.
[ Chuckles ]
It was all kind of perfect.
Driving home, we had a flat.
[ Car door closes ]
He jacked up the car without
loosening the lug nuts.
It was no big deal.
[ Grunts ]
Funny, actually.
[ Chuckles ]
[ Screams ]
Like being struck by lightning
on a cloudless day.
On our way
to the hospital,
he said he was sorry.
He told me how it would be
if I tried to leave.
When we got home...
he wanted sex.
Before all that happened,
there was no Jackie Black.
I met with an Oakland ADA,
and, uh, we were doing
some cases for them pro bono
for one reason.
You think that
will give you some leverage --
someone to talk to
about Raymond?
Have you heard anything
I said?
He's not omnipotent,
Jaclyn.
There are limits.
Not until he's dead.
Him or me.
Well,
if that's what you believe,
why did you want to meet?
You're my knight.
Jackie said that, too.
Then I guess she was right.
[ Horn blaring ]
Mine?
[ Cellphone ringing ]
The lady
will be right down.
Is there somewhere you can go
during the day?
Tell them you're tutoring
and see Suzanne?
I don't know. Maybe.
[ Sighs ]
That you should even
think of all this,
the way you stood up to him
in that restaurant.
I hardly stood up to him.
You did.
And don't think
he didn't notice.
Oh, my God.
So what is all this?
Oh, this is, uh --
It's just a hobby of mine.
This connection between
sense of smell and memory...
[ Sniffs ]
...interests me.
Mmm. That's nice.
Like a desert
after the rain.
Other pathways
run through the thalamus.
Sense of smell has direct access
to the limbic system,
which is why emotional,
visceral responses to scent
are so powerful.
Sorry, I, uh -- I can get
very boring about this.
No.
I like it when you talk
like a doctor.
Well, the cab's here.
We should probably go.
No, one more.
You pick which one.
Something you like.
Okay.
Uh, this is from
the south of Italy.
Jaclyn?
**
[ Tires squeal ]
[ Car alarm chirps ]
**
[ Door opens ]
[ Inhales deeply ]
You scared me.
You're never here
this early.
Yeah. Sorry.
Did you sleep here?
[ Sighs ] Not really, no.
I had some things
I had to get caught up on.
Oh. For this afternoon?
The conference,
Your presentation.
Shit.
Oh, you forgot.
Shit. Shit. Shit.
Jaclyn Blackstone --
I thought we'd given her
to Suzanne Simms.
Yes, we have.
Do you want to maybe
get us some coffee?
This was in the hallway.
Somebody left it
by the door.
It's not the best wrapping job
I've ever seen.
What is it?
Who's it from?
I know a way
you could find out.
[ Door closes ]
Aah!
**
Lucy: What is it?
It's this.
There was no note.
Mrs. Eldard.
She has an arts-and-crafts
studio in North Beach,
and she was crushing on you
a little bit.
You put those two things
together and...
Well, I broke it, so...
Here.
Well, maybe I can fix it.
Oh, and your finger, too.
Lucy: Suzanne called.
She said
your text woke her up,
your cellphone is off,
and you owe her a latte.
Right.
Suzanne: You should have
told her to go.
Yes, I should have,
but the point is
Jackie Black is real.
She's real,
and I saw her.
You still don't believe me.
You know as well as I do
dissociative disorders
of this type
almost always arrive
much earlier in life
and from childhood abuse.
I mean, we didn't deep-dive
into her history,
but Jaclyn did say
she had a wonderful childhood.
But you said that the work
you were doing was behavioral --
strategies by which
she'd say no to her husband.
That's true.
Saying you had
a wonderful childhood
does not make it so.
Well...
You know, my collection
of perfumes?
She found it,
she wanted to try one.
The reaction...
...was like
some past horror
that she's not even
aware of.
Hmm.
Now, I can't pursue that,
but you could.
Just wait a second.
Let --
Let me ask you something.
How did Blackstone know
to come to that restaurant?
I don't know.
He either overheard her
talking to me
or he's tracking her cell
or he followed her.
Or she told him
where she was going.
Who? Jackie or Jaclyn?
And why would
either one of them do that?
I don't know.
But I guess
I'm going to try to find out.
I was speaking to a friend
who just happens to have
a daughter
who just happens to be
having trouble
in pre-calculus.
They're in Oakland,
in the hills.
And they're okay with you
seeing Jaclyn there?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, you are the best.
I am the best.
El, I need you to accept
the role you played in this --
how you drew
Blackstone's focus,
and you turned something bad
into something even worse.
[ Sighs ]
You know what?
Scratch that.
From now on,
I need you to stay the hell
away from her.
I promise.
Oh, really?
That -- That --
That's just not good enough.
Mnh-mnh.
I swear.
How's that?
That's a little better.
Thank you.
Hey.
Lucy:
He says he knows you.
I told Mr. D --
It's okay, Lucy.
We have to talk.
[ Sighs ]
You want to step in here?
Carl said you were
asking after the guy
who bought your stuff.
Yeah.
Uh, the Russian,
Mr. Morozov.
I wouldn't go there,
brother.
I-I don't understand.
What's to understand?
Message you left got the boss
a little spooked.
Carl's got a reputation.
Anything goes out his door
is something
he's authenticated personally.
He can't just tell people
he was wrong
or shit's been fucked with.
He cancelled the check
he made out to you,
pulled it out in cash.
Count it if you want to.
We good?
Yeah.
How's it coming
with your cop buddy --
Blackstone?
I've been thinking
about him.
[ Sighs ]
He threatened me.
When was that?
Last night.
At a Chinese restaurant
in Berkeley.
I'd gone there to meet Jaclyn,
and he showed up.
What kind of threat?
He asked if I had kids,
and he started
talking about humans
as a predatory species.
He said if we met again,
there'd be trouble.
And then this morning,
there was a menu
from the Chinese restaurant
on my car.
[ Sighs ]
There's ways of handling
a guy like that
because right now,
he's the feeder.
I don't even know
what that means.
That shit in the alley --
How did I work that?
[ Sighs ]
It was very fast.
It was very violent.
I made sure they
were reacting to me.
People talk about
self-defense -- all bullshit.
If I'm defending,
I'm losing.
I want the other guy defending
while I attack.
That's how you win
in the real world,
in a real fight.
You want to get down
with this cop,
you need to turn the tables
on him.
Right now
Blackstone is the feeder,
you're the receiver.
You've got to
turn that around.
And how would I do that?
You might hire it done.
[ Chuckling ]
What? You?
[ Scoffs ]
First thing would be
to gather intel.
She says he's dirty.
What does that mean?
It's not that hard
to kill a clean cop.
They put themselves
in dangerous situations
all the time.
Any one of them
could go wrong.
But a cop who's dirty --
his whole life
is a dangerous situation.
You just need
to pay attention.
Where does he go?
Who does he see?
When is he
most vulnerable?
I think --
And I know I asked,
but I think I'm gonna
have to stop you there.
I want to handle this
on my own.
No shit.
How's that going?
It's a work in progress.
Awesome.
But while
you're progressing,
he's still the feeder.
So think about that.
**
[ Door closes ]
Woman: Here you go.
Hi.
Okay.
Ah! Okay.
A map, a program.
We are in Saavedra Hall,
apparently,
hosted by the Center for
Geriatric Medicine.
Exciting.
Here's a name tag
for you to wear
around your neck.
But will it support my weight,
is the question,
in the event
that I elect to pass the time
hanging myself?
That's not funny.
It's Vladimir and Estragon.
"Waiting for Godot."
You know, when they brought
"Godot" to America,
it opened in Miami
in this dinner theater.
It was billed as the laugh riot
of two continents,
and it bombed.
So then they put it on
for prisoners
in Sing Sing.
People said
it wouldn't work.
They wouldn't get it.
It was too highbrow.
Of course, they did.
Laughed their asses off,
'cause it spoke to them
where they lived.
In Sing Sing?
In a place
of existential dread.
To make a meaningful
cognitive assessment,
you first have to determine
where the person
lives existentially --
in which state -- anxiety,
depression, isolation.
Mm-hmm.
That is what the methodology
we're here to present
is gonna account for.
Could really change the game
for patients.
That's what we want to do.
It's what I want to do.
Yeah.
Dr. Chance.
Eric Martin,
Stanford Geriatrics.
How are you?
Good, thank you.
Good. We met at, uh,
Fort Miley Vet Center.
That's right.
May I introduce Lucy Baek,
my office manager?
Hi.
Nice to meet you.
Grad student
in clinical psych at Berkeley.
Oh, fantastic.
Nice to have you here
with us, Ms. Baek.
Thanks.
And I will see you onstage
in, uh, 15.
15 it is.
Can't wait.
Good.
Hey.
Give me a pound.
Give me a break.
Dr. Martin:
In addition to his work as
a forensic neuropsychiatrist,
you may also be familiar
with his interests
in the field of
cognitive assessment.
Dr. Eldon Chance.
[ Applause ]
Chance:
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you, Dr. Martin,
for that very generous
introduction
that I will try to live up to.
Uh, good afternoon,
everyone.
How are we feeling today?
[ Audience murmurs ]
Now,
I wanted to begin by...
[ Microphone feedback ]
**
I, uh...
I'm sorry.
That -- That, uh...
It's...not hard to understand
the -- uh,
the popularity of -- of, uh,
assessment tests
that claim to offer
a global composite score.
I -- We [sighs] --
We have to be, uh,
aware of the -- the danger.
Lucy:
I mean, you had this,
and then all of a sudden,
it was like panic mode.
I-I didn't know what to do,
if I should go up there or what.
Are you all right?
I-I have to stop.
I'll just meet you
at the car.
What's going on?
[ Cellphone ringing ]
I-I don't know.
I'm sorry.
[ Cellphone ringing
continues ]
Yes?
Christine: Please tell me
Nicole is with you.
Oh, my God, Eldon.
I called the school,
and I called the police.
She left school
before lunch.
W-What did
the police say?
"Who are her friends?"
and...
[ Voice breaking ] "Who was
the last one to see her?"
Do we know? Who --
who was the last person?
Yeah, it's Shawn.
It's Shawn.
But all she could say was
she saw her before lunch.
She was heading
toward the marina,
and she thought
she was coming home.
I mean -- I mean,
even if she's gonna lie,
she'd still call.
Do we have --
Do we have Shawn's number?
Yeah, I talked to Shawn,
So did the police.
Are you listening?
This is my fault.
This is all my fault.
What are you talking about?
No, please, don't do that.
Please, just focus.
I need your help.
I can't do this
by myself.
[ Tires screech ]
Neil: Hey. Hey.
Neil.
Sorry,
I-I went all over.
Nothing.
Hey, uh,
I'm -- I'm gonna drive.
I've got to drive.
No, no,
where are you going?
I just -- It's better
than sitting here. I can't.
I really tried everywhere
I could think of.
Well, maybe you don't know her
as well as you think.
[ Cellphone ringing ]
Hello?
Nicole: Daddy?
[ Siren wailing ]
Oh, God! Nic!
Dad?
Oh, God!
Ohh!
Oh. Are you okay?
What ha-- What happened?
No, I'm fine.
It's okay.
Jesus!
Wha--?
Does --
Does your neck hurt?
Dad,
can we just go, please?
No, come on.
Nic, look at me.
Open -- Open up your eyes wide.
Wide.
Now follow my finger.
No, dad, I'm fine.
Nic.
Okay. All right.
All right.
Well, is this the guy?
Thank you, sir,
for letting her use the phone.
You want to tell me
what happened?
Some asshole hit me
and took my backpack...
and my phone.
Well, we'll get you
another phone.
What did he look like?
I don't know.
A homeless guy.
Did he hit you with his fist
or with his open hand?
His hand.
Where did this happen?
Dad, do we have
to talk about this now?
Well, when do you want
to talk about it?
Your mother's
been calling everyone.
She called the school,
your friends, police.
Where were you?
The park.
I'd been for a run,
and I was gonna go
to the yogurt place.
Alone?
You skipped three classes,
Nicky.
I know. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Well, the important thing
is you're okay.
Are you in pain?
No, daddy.
I'm fine.
Thanks for coming
to get me.
[ Cellphone ringing ]
I have to take this.
Thank so much for calling,
Holly.
Uh, wait just a minute.
Oh, my God.
Oh, come here.
Let me --
Ohh.
Nicole: It's fine.
Um...
this is, uh, Principal Stein
from Havenwood.
Would you let her know
what's happening?
Okay, come here.
Hello,
this is Eldon Chance.
Dr. Chance,
it's Holly Stein.
I don't want to keep you.
Just --
Is there any news?
Yeah, she, uh --
She called. She's back.
Oh, thank God.
Thank you for following up.
That's very kind of you.
We appreciate that.
Oh, of course.
Just while I have you, though,
something came up that I was
gonna share with your --
uh, Christina, anyway,
but because she said
she called the police...
[ Knocks ]
...I just thought you both
needed to know now.
Chance: Hey.
How's the cheek?
It's okay.
Show me?
Do you mind?
No.
[ Sighs ]
I talked
with Principal Stein.
Your mother's
talking to her now.
You left an art box
in your last-period class.
They went through
my stuff?
Well, yeah, they did.
I guess
under the circumstances,
people were getting
desperate.
Well, there was nothing there,
so...
There were some stems
and residue.
You know the school's
drug policy is zero tolerance.
That's why everyone there
is loaded all the time.
Stop it!
Now I need to know
the truth.
Could what was there
have had anything to do
with what happened tonight?
Did you have more
in your backpack?
Or you were going somewhere
to buy something?
I could do that at school.
I told you.
It was some crazy guy.
Mrs. Stein says
that your grades have slipped.
What difference does it make
if I'm leaving anyway?
Oh, come on, Nic.
You're not serious
about that.
How was your speech?
Mom said you had
to go to a conference
to talk about an idea you had
that might make money.
Yeah.
You remember when I used
to fly to Seattle a lot?
That was for this.
Some doctors up there
I was working with.
And we kind of
dropped the ball,
but now it looks like
there might be
some renewed interest.
So how'd it go?
A work in progress.
You know that book
reminds me of
when we were sitting
on the porch.
You were about 3,
and you said the words
"outer space"
just like that,
out of the blue.
And I asked you if you knew
where outer space was,
and you pointed down the street
and said, "Down there."
Well, I guess that's where
I thought it was.
What's going on with you,
Nic?
Why did it happen?
Why did what happen?
Was it mom's fault?
Was it because of
her and Neil?
It was no one's fault.
How can a divorce
be no one's fault?
I'm sorry.
I don't have any better answers.
We'll talk about
your grades in school --
all of that -- later.
But for now,
no more going out alone,
okay?
We good?
Good night.
[ Telephone ringing ]
Hello?
Is this a bad time?
Who is this?
You don't have anything
to say to me now?
Holly: And while
the usual consequence
in a case like this
is expulsion
and we've tried very hard
to be cognizant
of the big picture here
and to be sensitive to
how hard it can be on the child,
and it is to that end
that we are willing to consider
the possibility of Nicole's
continuing at Havenwood,
albeit under strict probation,
of course.
And moving forward,
I think let's discuss
the parameters
of continuing --
That won't be necessary.
I'm sorry? What won't be.
It won't be necessary
for us to discuss
anything further.
I'm afraid
I don't understand.
Which part?
Besides
the obvious hypocrisy
of pretending that Nicole
faces expulsion
over a teaspoon of herbs
when the Layton girl
was selling pills on
campus last fall,
and yet I just saw her
in the hallway.
Okay, what are you doing?
I'm being the feeder.
It's very simple.
We thank you
for your consideration,
but we don't need it.
I think the last day
of the exams
is 10 days from tomorrow.
That'll be Nicole's
last day at Havenwood.
[ Indistinct conversations ]
You're the feeder?
I grew weary
under that woman's assault --
what they will accept,
what they won't,
sensitive this,
probationary that.
If we had money,
they'd happily take it,
zero tolerance be damned.
I thought it was time
to end the charade.
Oh, just on your own,
without any further discussion?
What's to discuss?
Unless you want
to pick up the tab?
What is funny?
The look
on Ms. Stein's face.
No. No, it's not.
And you and I
will talk about this later.
Walk with me a second.
She'll be right back.
Listen.
I'm gonna get busy with
that apartment in Berkeley.
You keep saying that.
Yeah, I'm saying it,
and I'm doing it.
But I need you
to keep your promise
about not running alone,
okay?
You still think
what happened was my fault.
I'm not saying
it's your fault, okay.
I just --
It pays to be watchful.
That's all.
Now what?
Now nothing.
I love you.
**
Aah!
Chance: The patient is
a 26-year-old male
admitted for
psychiatric hospitalization.
Tox screen positive
for methamphetamine.
Man: [ Screaming ]
Calm down. Calm down.
Prior to admission,
patient violated
a restraining order
issued ex parte
on October 8, 1989,
in San Diego County
Superior Court
and was subsequently
arrested.
[ Sighs ]
The patient was
a post-grad year three
doing a residence in psychiatry
at Mass General.
He was on call
when he encountered
the protected party.
They subsequently
began a relationship
of several months,
which ended when
she abruptly broke things off
and moved to San Diego.
Unable or refusing
to accept this decision,
patient took a leave of absence
and followed.
For the next few months
in San Diego,
patient persisted in trying
to maintain unwanted contact
until ultimately protected
party retained counsel,
and a restraining order
was issued,
which patient violated
shortly thereafter
resulting in his arrest.
Diagnosis -- in part --
delusional erotomania.
De Clérambault Syndrome.
Everyone feels better
when a thing has a name.
Doctor:
How are we doing here?
A little calmer now,
I hope.
You awake?
Eldon.
Dr. Chance.
[ Pounds on door ]
What's up, brother?
You were right.
The shit has hit the fan.
Jesus.
This stuff legit?
You're asking me if kiddie porn
is legit?!
How the fuck should I know?
That's some of
the most hateful stuff
I've seen in my life,
and yet there it is.
It just popped up
on my screen.
I was about to give
a lecture.
That could have
projected onto screens
in front of 100 people.
That's fucked up.
Yeah, fucked up
and career-ending.
How could that
even happen?
Time bomb.
Get access
to someone's computer,
input information, hide it,
set it to open
on a given day.
Day comes --
file populates the computer.
You could also rig it
to go to e-mail.
Everybody you know
could get this stuff.
[ Sighs ]
Laptop always with you?
Yeah.
Then I'd say
you got hacked.
I'm not the expert,
but it can be done.
Perp is good enough.
He's a cop.
Couldn't be someone
you pissed off in court?
Crazy patient?
My daughter was attacked.
Some stranger in the street
took her bag,
hit her in the face.
[ Sighs ]
This is Blackstone, D.
I know it.
And there's more.
Some stuff from the past.
He broke in.
He left it in my car --
some medical records,
legal stuff.
It's old news,
but still damaging
if it fell
into the wrong hands.
What would that look like?
You lose your license?
They kick you out?
No, I'd still be a doctor,
but I'd be compromised.
No one would hire me.
You add the kiddie porn to that,
and all bets are off.
This guy is out
to crush me.
He's out to show you
he can crush you.
There's a difference.
He could have you whacked,
but he's trying to scare you
instead.
That says something.
My guess --
You're scaring him.
How?
That's what you need
to find out.
Know what your enemy
is afraid of.
That's power.
You know, we, uh --
You know,
we talked about this once,
how I could...
hire it done.
I'm not talking about
killing anyone.
Just taking him down.
Going through channels.
Yeah.
Weak, but doable.
Right place and time,
grab his computer,
download files.
Might give you something.
You could also fuck with him
a little.
Give him a time bomb.
I...I don't want
to get into that.
This is not a game.
The question is not
"Is it a game?"
The question is
"Who sets the rules?"
Who's the feeder?
I'll take that to mean
you're ready to talk numbers.
**